---
layout: archive
title: "Reflections"
permalink: /reflections/
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /reflections
---

{% include base_path %}

## Cumulative Reflection
<!-- ====== -->
When I look back at my time at ISU over the past four years, I can tell that I have learned a lot and have come a long way since that first day of classes Freshman year. I think that overall, ISU did a decent job at preparing me to design systems and processes going forward in my career. I think that they could have done a better job at preparing me for this by incorporating more technologies into the curriculum. I understand that there are a large number of technologies out there that companies use, however I think that there is a large amount of overlap in what is taught currently and the SE program could “kill two birds with one stone” by changing some of the technologies that the courses teach. For example, there is no course that covers some of the things that are used in backend development such as Docker and Kubernetes. These are two major backend technologies that are used in industry that we are not being exposed to as students. Moving on from that though, I think that ISU has done a fairly good job at helping prepare me to formulate and solve engineering problems. I am able to be given a problem statement now and start to break down the necessary parts and how to build it up into a full software product or system. This has especially been the case with our senior design project thus far. Lastly, I don’t think that Iowa State has done a lot to prepare me to consider the impact of engineering solutions in a global context and the ethical implications of my engineering decisions. These topics have yet to really become part of my education until we were required to think of them in our senior design project. I think the challenge comes into play here since there is simply so much technical knowledge that must be imparted to students that it is difficult to effectively cover the impact of our solutions in a global context as well as the ethical implications of the decisions made. 

I think that overall, ISU has done a really good job at preparing me to work collaboratively on software projects. The first two years at ISU as an SE major are really necessary to give you a strong foundation in coding and how to logic about a problem before you are able to attempt to start to solve the broader, harder problems. These lead up to the last two years in which you are able to work well in groups to gain new perspectives and skills as you work to recognize and solve contemporary issues. When working on class projects and problem solving tasks though, I relied heavily upon my peers, the TAs/Instructor, and the internet. Those were my primary resources that I would turn to when running into issues or when I would have questions on an assignment. One thing that I think that ISU could have done a better job at was helping us to understand the professional and ethical responsibilities that we have as software developers, in the context of these group projects. Those two things were not really covered and didn’t need to be taken into consideration for our group projects. 

I would say that the two main activities that had the largest impact on me outside of the classroom were working as an Undergraduate Teaching Assistant for 6 of my 8 semesters at ISU. There were many valuable skills that I was able to gain as a TA, from having a better understanding of C, to understanding the importance of the courses and the flow of the program to really improving my communication skills since I needed to be able to teach other students. In addition to all of those skills, being a TA showed me that I really have a passion for teaching and it’s something that I’d like to continue to do or come back to doing after working in industry. The second activity that I think had a big impact on me outside of the classroom, was working with the SE advisors to stand up more outreach efforts in order to promote the SE program. This also allowed me to strengthen my communication abilities especially since I have to talk about a very technical program in a non-technical manner in the hopes of convincing prospective students that ISU and SE is the right fit for them. I would say those are the outside activities that have had the biggest impact on me outside of the classroom.

I have started to undertake some side projects during the latter half of my time at ISU in order to help me learn new technologies and improve my software development skills. I think this helps to increase my ability to be more comfortable with not knowing how to do something initially since I didn’t initially know how to do things like React and Flask with my side projects. But with enough effort, internet searching and resilience I was able to figure it out. This has really helped me increase my confidence of going into a project and not necessarily knowing exactly how to do it initially but being comfortable with that feeling. 

Overall, I would say that I have learned a lot during my time at ISU. If I were to do my undergraduate work again, I would say that I would try to care more about the content of classes earlier on, instead of simply the grade. In addition to that I would try to understand earlier on how each class fits into the program as a whole. I think that if I were to do my undergraduate work again with these two things in mind, I would be able to be even more successful and my work done here would have an even larger impact on me. 

## General Education Reflection
<!-- ====== -->
List of General Education Courses:
-	Hist 221
-	Hist 222
-	Econ 101
-	Soc 100
-	Phil 201
-	Relig 380

Overall, I do not think that my General Education courses helped me to develop as a professional engineer. Part of this could be due to the fact that of the classes listed above, I only actually took 2 of them at Iowa State University. The rest of the classes I brought in with AP credits from high school with the exception of Econ 101 which I took as an online summer course. That being said though, I did enjoy Phil 201 and Relig 380- the two courses that I took at ISU. I would have to say that Phil 201: Introduction to Philosophy likely helped the most in developing me as a professional engineer because of the way that we questioned various aspects of the world around us as well as thinking about what is morally/ethically right and wrong which are problems that we encounter as engineers in today’s world. I think that the general education courses that I’ve taken help me to better think about an engineering problem by allowing me to interact with students across non-engineering majors and learn how they view and think about problems. One of the nicest things about the Gen Ed courses that I took here at ISU, was the break they gave from the technical courses. It was nice to be able to still use problem solving and critical thinking but in a non-technical manner. This can be related to seeing beyond the engineering solution when solving a problem and put the work that you do in a societal context since the clients that you interact with when developing software will likely come from different backgrounds and have different values of what is morally/ethically right and wrong.

Looking to the future, I my initial short term goal is to continue my education as a Masters student here at ISU in order to pursue my Masters in Computer Engineering. I hope to pursue my Masters for a couple of reasons- I’d like to gain more detailed knowledge of computing and software systems, I’d like to help contribute to the expansion of knowledge in our field via research, and then there is the added career benefits of job availability. This then leads me to my long term goal which would be to come back to Iowa State as a lecturer and researcher to teach the future generations of Software Engineers. 

## Ethics Reflection
<!-- ====== -->
I think that if I were one of the software engineers on the OpenAI project, I likely would have wanted to share what I had made with the outside world. That being said, I probably would have come to the realization- especially after talking with colleagues and friends- that it would have not been a smart idea to release the entire software. I think I would have done something similar to what OpenAI is currently doing by releasing a “watered down” version of their software. I think though, it would have been a struggle to determine what the best course of action to take would be. It would be too easy to throw your hands up and simply release it since others have, as is mentioned in the article, but just because others have released similar products does not mean that it is the right thing to do. 

I think that the OpenAI engineers ended up doing what they did because they still wanted to share their discovery and product with the rest of the world. In addition to that they may have had some requirements to publish their work based on the funding they received. OpenAI’s decision to release a stripped down version of their software also might help to cover them in terms of liability. They may have wanted to acknowledge the fact that they know this exists but are working to protect it in case their technology was ever used maliciously. Those are what I think the primary reasons are behind OpenAI’s decision to only release part of their software. 


## Relevant Course Projects
<!-- ====== -->

### SE 309
The group project that I was a part of for SE 309 was the first real software development project that I was a part of during my time as a Software Engineering student at Iowa State. My group and I were tasked with coming up with a project to develop through out the entire semseter that would allow us to put the Agile development cycle into practice and from that we developed an Android app called MemeUP. This app allowed users to connect with one another based on the types and style of memes they liked. I worked primarily on the backend for this project and was able to gain experience with SpringBoot as well as writing server side code. As we went through the semester and development lifecylce, my team and I iteratively designed the components as we needed them but overall followed an Agile process to add new requirements as they were presented to us throughout the semseter. 

### SE 319
The group project that I was a part of for SE 319 was the second time that I was able to gain experience with the Agile development lifecycle as an SE student. This was more of a watered down version of the development lifecycle since it was only half of the semester. But the design process was still present as we developed a project plan that allowed us to prepare an initial set of deliverables. After delivering the initial product, we continued to add functionality to our app as the requirements were expanded. For this project I also worked on the backend development and was able to continue to refine my skills in developing server side code. 

### Cyclone Hours
Cyclone Hours is a personal project that I started working on this past summer to help with students in line for office hours. The idea behind it was to develop a web applicaiton that would create temporary groups students could join and be added to a queue. The students could then specify if they had a question or would like to demo their code. The TA working the office hours would be able to use this information to then be able to better manage a large number of students in their office hours. I am currently still going through the design and development process for this project but approaching it in more of an iterative style. That is, I am working on one page or part of the application at a time, refining it and getting it to a stable point before moving to the next part. This project has allowed me to gain experience with both front and back end development in HTML/CSS, Python, and Flask. 
